🔥 Laravel Real-World Query Scenarios — 100 Practice Questions
1–20: Relationship Existence & Filtering
Fetch all posts that don’t have comments in the last 7 days.

Get all users who have never placed an order.

Retrieve all products that have at least 10 reviews.

Find categories that have more than 5 products.

Get users who have more than 3 active subscriptions.

Retrieve authors who have at least one published book in the last year.

Get all stores that don’t have any products in stock.

Find all posts that have both "Laravel" and "PHP" tags.

Get events that have no attendees.

Fetch courses that have more than 100 enrolled students.

Retrieve all drivers who have completed at least 50 rides.

Get all books that have never been borrowed.

Find teachers who teach in more than one department.

Retrieve musicians who have at least 5 albums.

Get movies that have no ratings.

Fetch all hotels with more than 10 available rooms.

Get all products that belong to more than 3 categories.

Retrieve all students who have failed at least one subject.

Find employees who have exactly 2 roles assigned to them.

Get orders that don’t have any associated payment records.

21–40: Aggregates & Ranking
Get the top 3 users with the most orders.

Retrieve the most recent comment for each post.

Get the total sales amount for each user, ordered by highest first.

Find the top 5 products by number of orders in the last month.

Get the top 10 most commented posts of all time.

Retrieve categories with the highest number of products.

Find the average order value per customer.

Get the maximum order amount for each user.

Retrieve products where stock is less than the average stock of all products.

Find the total revenue grouped by month for the current year.

Get the minimum salary for each department.

Retrieve the top 3 authors by total number of book sales.

Find the city with the most registered users.

Get the number of orders placed per day for the last 7 days.

Find the top 5 students by GPA.

Get the highest-rated product in each category.

Retrieve the average rating for each movie.

Find the best-selling product of all time.

Get the most active user in the last 24 hours.

Retrieve the product with the highest profit margin in each category.

41–60: Conditional & Complex Filtering
Get all users with at least one failed payment in the last month.

Retrieve orders placed in the last 30 days but not yet shipped.

Find all customers who placed an order but not in the last year.

Get all posts where the number of comments is greater than the number of likes.

Retrieve all users who registered in the last 30 days and have at least 1 order.

Get all products that were never purchased.

Find orders with both "Electronics" and "Accessories" products.

Retrieve events happening within the next 14 days.

Get hotels with available rooms and at least a 4-star rating.

Find employees who joined in the last 6 months but haven’t taken any leave.

Get all blog posts that have no tags assigned.

Retrieve customers who ordered from multiple cities.

Find all students who failed more than 2 subjects in a semester.

Get users who have both "admin" and "editor" roles.

Retrieve all customers with pending invoices older than 60 days.

Get books that were borrowed more than 5 times but never returned late.

Find all users who purchased both Product A and Product B.

Get all movies released in the last year with no awards.

Retrieve all drivers with no accidents in the last 3 years.

Get all teachers who teach in exactly one subject.

61–80: Pivot Table & Many-to-Many
Get pivot table data when retrieving user roles.

Retrieve all products where pivot table discount is greater than 20%.

Find all students enrolled in more than 3 courses.

Get courses where the pivot field "completed" is true.

Retrieve all teams that have more than 5 players.

Find all users assigned to more than 2 projects.

Get all employees working on a specific project with a pivot "role" of "Manager".

Retrieve all books authored by multiple authors.

Get all bands with more than 4 active members.

Find companies partnered for more than 2 years (pivot date condition).

Retrieve all orders where the pivot "quantity" is greater than 5.

Get all products in multiple orders from the same user.

Find users who liked more than 20 posts.

Retrieve posts tagged with more than 3 tags.

Get musicians in at least 2 different bands.

Find courses co-taught by multiple teachers.

Retrieve all stores with suppliers in more than 3 regions.

Get events with attendees from more than 5 cities.

Find athletes who participated in at least 3 tournaments.

Retrieve all recipes with ingredients from more than 2 categories.

81–100: Mixed Complex Scenarios
Update or insert multiple records without looping.

Delete all users without any related orders.

Increment stock for all products in a given category by 10.

Mark all unread notifications for a user as read.

Archive all posts older than 2 years.

Reset password for all inactive users.

Copy all roles from one user to another.

Deactivate all subscriptions that expired last month.

Assign a default role to all users without a role.

Remove a specific tag from all posts.

Attach a discount to all products in a specific category.

Remove all attendees from events in the past.

Sync roles for a list of users without duplicates.

Restore all soft-deleted records in a table.

Force delete all products without sales in the last 2 years.

Change the status of all unpaid invoices to "overdue".

Increase salary by 5% for all employees in a department.

Transfer all orders from one user to another.

Duplicate a product along with all its relationships.

Generate a leaderboard of top customers based on total spending.